We added our
post back in endpoint with the app post method,
now let's connect angular and by the way because I see it, we could also use app get down here,
we can also stick to app use, the post request won't reach this because we don't call next here and
we absolutely shouldn't because we're already sending a response,
we'll get an error if we still try to send another response but we could call get here to really narrow
this down to get requests.
So that's a side note but we want to go back to angular, in post create component we triggered that add
post method,
so it's in that method that we should send our request.
So in add post, pushing it to our local posts is still fine because we still want to use our posts here
probably
but I also want to store it on the server.
So what I'll add here and you could also add this at the very end,
as a side note what we're doing here basically is optimistic updating, we're updating the local data
before we have server side confirmation that it succeeded.
We could send our request here though, this http post because we'll send a post request,
the url will be the same one as for the get request but with a different http verb,
so like this, the post requests here also get back some data
so we can define this here with the generic type,
we know we'll just get a message which is of type string
and then we need to pass a second argument to that post method
and that is that data we want to post and that of course is our, well post data here,
so this post constant. Now as before, nothing will happen if we don't subscribe,
so let's call subscribe here and in that subscribe method
we got the typical handlers, here
I will handle the success case and I will get back my response data,
you can name this argument however you want, it will have this format and I will simply console log response
data message here.
Now I said we used optimistic updating and we could move that to the end
but we can also switch from optimistic updating to only updating if we did succeed by cutting these
two calls
here and adding them in the subscribe method because this will execute asynchronously only once we got
a success response because this first argument is only called for success responses,
so we will only push the new post to the local posts here if we really, well have a successful response
from our server side.
With that we can restart the ngServe command or restart the local server, the node server should again
have restarted automatically
and now let's see that in action and we will see if it works by, well seeing a log in our server side
log,
so here where the node is running and seeing a log in the browser because we're also logging here
once we got a response.
So let's go back to our application and reload it and let's now simply try adding a new post here, some
cool content, hit save post and we get an error again, another cors error,
now what's wrong with that here? It's actually saying that the request header field content type which is set
automatically by angular to application json by the way, that this is not allowed.
So if we go back to our express backend here, we did add it though, access control allow header and that
simply is a typo,
it should be headers,
sorry about that.
So with that added, if we restart, we should be able to, we don't even need to reload
but let's do it anyways I guess, so let's try this again.
New post, something cool and at least you could see that cors thing in action filtering not just for
domain but also for the headers
and now if I hit this, the new post is added here which is a good sign,
we get post added successfully here which means we got a success response from the server
and if we check our server side log, we also see the post object here.
ID is null because we didn't set any on the client but we see the title and we see the content.
So this is now working as expected,
we're posting data,
we're getting data.
Of course one important thing is missing besides the ability to edit or delete posts
and that is we're not storing the posts anywhere,
we got no database.
So time to add mongodb in the next course section.